[main]
host = https://www.transifex.com
lang_map = sr@latin:sr_Latn

[freedom.core]
file_filter = freedom/conf/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/conf/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-admin]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/admin/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/admin/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-admin-js]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/admin/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedomjs.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/admin/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedomjs.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-admindocs]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/admindocs/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/admindocs/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-auth]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/auth/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/auth/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-comments]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/comments/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/comments/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-contenttypes]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/contenttypes/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/contenttypes/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-flatpages]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/flatpages/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/flatpages/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-formtools]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/formtools/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/formtools/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-gis]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/gis/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/gis/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-humanize]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/humanize/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/humanize/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-messages]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/messages/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/messages/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-redirects]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/redirects/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/redirects/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-sessions]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/sessions/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/sessions/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en

[freedom.contrib-sites]
file_filter = freedom/contrib/sites/locale/<lang>/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_file = freedom/contrib/sites/locale/en/LC_MESSAGES/freedom.po
source_lang = en
