Deploy Settings Checklist
=========================

When you're finally ready to deploy your Django project to a production
environment, you should take some time to review your ``settings.py`` file and
make the appropriate changes for the transition.  You can use this section as a
checklist for your deployment.

Additionally, with the exception of :setting:`DEBUG`, if you're publishing the
source code for your project, these variable should be treated as sensitive and
confidential.  In these cases, it's generally better to keep these values in a
separate unpublished file, imported by the published ``settings.py``.


DEBUG
-----
You've probably been developing your project with ``DEBUG = True``, since this
enables all manner of handy things like a full traceback in your browser window.
For a production environment, this is a really bad idea, so it's best to turn
this off by setting ``DEBUG = False``.


DATABASES
---------
Your production database setup is likely different from that in your development
environment.  It may only be the case that your username and password values
differ, but for some cases, even the database engine is different.


STATIC_ROOT
-----------
As :setting:`STATIC_ROOT` is a complete path, your static root on your
development environment is probably very different from production.


SECRET_KEY
----------
Obviously, :setting:`SECRET_KEY` should never be published, but there's value in
making sure that the key used on production is only used on production: you
reduce the number of vectors from which an attacker may acquire the key.


ADMINS
------
Typically, :setting:`ADMINS` is blank in development, but in a production
environment, users in this list can be notified of server errors by way of an
internal service.  Leaving this blank won't prevent your site from working, but
it may prevent you from finding out why it sometimes doesn't work.


SERVER_EMAIL
------------
Variables like :setting:`ADMINS` depend on :setting:`SERVER_EMAIL` in order to
be useful.  If your site sends email to anyone, for any reason, (including to
yourself for error reports), then this value needs to be set.


ALLOWED_HOSTS
-------------
This is just good security policy.  Not terribly important in development, the
:setting:`ALLOWED_HOSTS` setting protects your site from cross site request
forgeries, and should be enabled on any production server.
